Hacking on GnuCash Documentation Guidelines
===========================================

This document is an introduction to hacking the GnuCash documentation.

For both reviewers and documentation writers;

Please read the following guides. The Handbook is a bit outdated right
now as it refers to writing SGML based documentation and I have moved
the new docs to the GNOME2 XML docbook based system.Its basic structure
is still relevant, however. I would like everyone wishing to help to
follow these guides where possible when reviewing and/or writing docs.
http://developer.gnome.org/projects/gdp/styleguide.html
http://developer.gnome.org/projects/gdp/handbook.html

Other useful references;

The following links are for further sites that can help with the
documentation and review process.
http://www.docbook.org (has a comprehensive online guide to docbook)
http://developer.gnome.org/projects/gup/hig/1.0/ (GNOME Human Interface
Guidelines)

I suggest also subscribing to gnucash-devel, but this is not absolutely
necessary.

Reviewers;

Please check out the documentation module from the GnuCash CVS -
gnucash-docs. For those not familiar with cvs, the gnucash website has a
description at http://www.gnucash.org/en/hacking.phtml The only change
to get the docs is to change the checkout gnucash to checkout
gnucash-docs. You can also start from the current docs tarball, however
this has only a copy of the help at the moment.

I think the best way of retaining comments about docs in an easy to find
way for everyone would be to use bugzilla.gnome.org to file the bugs
under documentation. This can also be done using bug-buddy.

Writers;

Also checkout the docs cvs as above. The usual procedure for
contributors to GnuCash is to initially submit patches to the
gnucash-patches mailing list, though I will also accept patches
submitted to me directly. I will handle getting the patches added into
CVS. You can also add the patch to a bug report in bugzilla if you wish.

I would like writers to also let other know their intentions of which
section they wish to tackle. Please forward this to gnucash-devel so
that people can say 'hey I'm doing that already' or some such.

You may also want to retail a local copy of the old documentation to
refer to when writing. This still has a lot of useful information in it
which hasn't been transferred to the new docs.

NOTE: The id used in the <article> and <sect1> tag is important as it defines
the name used when the html pages are generated. Please be careful with these.

Chris Lyttle
6th Dec 2002
